This motion graphics video is the perfect
example of how some simple effects can really
improve a “basic” animation and help to sell
it as more interesting than what actually is.
In this video I want to recreate some
oh these compositions and share with
you some simple effects combinations that we can
add to any animation to create that
extra layer of care and attention..
this video in sponsored by celwizard
frame by frame animation library,
but more about that after the tutorial
the first effect is deform at impact.
I have a normal bouncing ball, but it’s not
really convincing. It's a little bit stiff,
I could improve it with some squash
and stretch, but sometimes squash and
stretch can be a little too cartoony so
here's an alternative that you can try…
create an adjustment layer and
position it above the element that
is going to be deformed by the impact.
apply the effect “liquify” and select
the brush tool, adjust the dimension
and now you can distort your layer.
Then add a keyframe to the distortion
percentage and set it at 100 at the
moment of the impact, set it
to zero at the frame before,
and zero again after more or
less half second after the impact
ok, now I want to smooth the curve
a little bit and I'm copying these
keyframes for every bounce, where
I've put the keyframe in red.
Since the sphere loses kinetic energy
at every bounce we have to lower the
percentage of the distortion. I'm setting
the second bounce at 70 instead of 100,
and the third bounce only at 20.
reactive light and shadows..
this is a very popular one, maybe because it’s
really cool while also really easy to make..
I have this composition with my sphere
that moves around this grid of panels.
the only animations at the moment
are just a few position keyframes
on the sphere that move between the
panels.. and i also animated the
position of the panels to make some
room when the sphere passes through.
the first thing to do is to duplicate
the composition where you have all of your
environment and apply the effect RADIAL FAST BLUR
then you have to select the center of
the effect and position it on the sphere,
then select the center property pickwhip
and parent it to the position of the sphere.
now the center of the radial fast blur
will follow the position of the sphere.
I want to increase the amount of radial
blur a little bit, let’say to 90.. and
I also want to have it in a uniform color so
I'm applying a fill effect to make it blue..
we are done with the shadows, no
we need some dynamic light so we
can duplicate our environment layer
apply a brightness effect on it.
then we create a new solid layer and
use a mask to create a faded circle
and we’ll use this circle as a matte
for the brighter environment comp.
Then if we parent our faded circle to your sphere,
the matte will follow the sphere position and
that’s it. Now we have a light and shadow system
that follows your elements and create a really
cool interaction with the graphics around it.
last effect is revealing lenses
I think it’s really cool
to show something through a
sliding of something transparent, like a
sort of lens that shows a hidden layer.
First thing I recreated a similar comp to
my video reference but you can obviously
it in any different type of context.. I have some
concentric circles, one with a 4 gradient effect.
another circle, some graphics and an
adjustment layer with a blur effect,
a brightness affect and some mask.
i have the usual blue sphere that
rotate inside the circle and scale to the center.
and lastly parented to the sphere i have a comp
with an animation of floating object that will
be the hidden layer that is inside of the sphere.
Now we have to set up our lenses
to reveal the hidden layer…
First of all we create a new adjustment layer,
and we apply a gaussian blur effect on it,
we create a circular mask and increase
the blur effect and we already can startto see that this is the right direction..
In my case I want to create a round shapelayer because I want a stroke around my lens,
so I'm parenting a round shape layer to my
adjustment layer, but you can skip this part,
depending on the aesthetic of your project.
then we need to create a second circle for the
second lens and we need to have this new circle
cancel out the blur of the first one.
Like if by aligning the second lens it creates a focus and removes the blurriness of the first lens.
so we select the first circle and set the new one as a matte.
after that we click on this icon to invert tha matte
so that the blurriness of the first lens is only outside the second one
ok perfect now we have a second circle that work as revealer, and where it moves cancelsthe blur effect
Now it’s time to play a little bit with the
position of our lenses,
so in this case i’mmoving the lens position to the side
I want to apply the same position
animation also to the first lens,
add some ease to smooth the movement.
along with the position i also
want to animate the dimension
of the lenses so that they scale up
while moving toward the center
I also need to animate the stroke thickness to
keep it consistent during the scale but that's
only because I choose to add that stroke to
frame my lens and you can totally avoid that..
ok we animated the position and scale of the
lens going into the scene, now we can just
copy the keyframe to make them going out.
I also want to add some rotation around the
center so I'm going to add a Null object
that will be the center of the rotation..
Then we can then parent our lenses
to this new null object and if we
keyframe the null rotation giving him a
couple of rounds the lenses will follow…
to create a more dynamic scene we can also set
some offset between the scale
and position of the two lenses.
we just need to select all the keyframes
from the first layer and move them
slightly along the timeline.. I would say
something around just 5 or 10 frames..
i want to separate a little bit
the two layer so i’m adding a
drop shadow effect and setting it very light
here you go three cool effect that you can try
when a client ask you for some “wow effect”
also this video was sponsored by Celwizard.com,
that is actually a business of mine,
one of the biggest project of my career.. it's
a library of editable elements for after effect,
but the really cool thing is that all
these elements are not the usual flat
motion graphics icons but are animated frame
by frame, so that they rotate on themself,
they morph and they are way more organic
than other motion graphics preset…
They are modular so that they can be combined
to create different animation sequences and are
also fully editable so that you can have them
match your aesthetic and your visual style.
If you are curious check it out at
celwizard.com, there’s a link in the description.
Subscribe for the next tutorial and if
there is something about animation or
motion graphics you would like to see, please let me know in the comments… bye